JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
On the "NewsHour" tonight:
NEIL GORSUCH, Supreme Court
Nominee: Any one,
any law is going to get a fair
and square
deal with me.
JUDY WOODRUFF: President Trump's
Supreme Court
pick is grilled by Senate
Judiciary Committee
Democrats during the second day
of his confirmation
hearing.
Then: President Trump lobbies
Republican members
of Congress to vote for the
revised health
care replacement bill, warning
them their
reelection is at risk.
And a Denver community focuses
on all aspects
of early education to give kids
a better start.
JENNA SMITH, Runs Aquaponics
Greenhouse: Healthy
food is foundational to overall
health and
well-being.
It's a very important component
to having
-- helping kids to grow up, pay
attention
in class, you know, be strong
and active.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: It's been an
all-day interrogation
for Supreme Court nominee Neil
Gorsuch at
his Senate confirmation hearing.
The federal appeals judge fended
off Democrats'
efforts today to ferret out his
views on hot-button
issues.
He also worked to show
independence from the
man who picked him under
friendly questioning
from Republican Lindsey Graham.
SEN.
LINDSEY GRAHAM (R), South
Carolina: Had you
ever met President Trump
personally?
NEIL GORSUCH, Supreme Court
Nominee: Not until
my interview.
SEN.
LINDSEY GRAHAM: In that
interview, did he
ever ask you to overrule Roe v.
Wade?
NEIL GORSUCH: No, Senator.
SEN.
LINDSEY GRAHAM: What would you
have done if
he had asked?
NEIL GORSUCH: Senator, I would
have walked
out the door.
It's not what judges do.
They don't do it at that end of
Pennsylvania
Avenue, and they shouldn't do it
at this end
either, respectfully.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We will have
extensive excerpts
from and analysis of today's
hearing in just
a moment.
But, first, the other big story
of this day,
a full-court press by the
president and the
speaker of the House, Paul Ryan,
to pass a
new health care bill that aims
to replace
major components of the current
law, the Affordable
Care Act, known as Obamacare.
Time is ticking before a crucial
vote in the
House on Thursday, and
Republicans know there
may not be any Democrats who
will support
it then.
Our Lisa Desjardins reports from
Capitol Hill.
LISA DESJARDINS: Witness the art
of trying
to close the deal.
QUESTION: Do you have the votes,
Mr. President?
DONALD TRUMP, President of the
United States:
Think so.
LISA DESJARDINS: President Trump
at the Capitol
pushing for votes on the GOP
health care bill,
telling members privately their
jobs are at
risk if they don't pass a repeal
bill.
White House spokesman Sean
Spicer summed up
the argument later.
SEAN SPICER, White House Press
Secretary:
Yes, I think there's going to be
a price to
be paid, and it's going to be
with their own
voters.
And they're going to have go
back and explain
to them why they made a
commitment to them
and then didn't follow through.
LISA DESJARDINS: As the White
House pushes,
GOP leaders at the Capitol are
sounding more
enthusiastic.
REP.
PAUL RYAN (R-WI), Speaker of the
House: I
just got to say, editorial, the
president
just came here and knocked the
ball out of
the park.
He knocked the cover off the
ball.
It is a big moment, and I think
our members
are beginning to appreciate just
what kind
of rendezvous with destiny we
have right here.
LISA DESJARDINS: But destiny
requires votes.
To win them, Speaker Ryan and
his team did
more than invite a president;
they changed
their bill, adding 21 pages of
policy amendments
last night geared to win key
groups, for conservatives,
some Medicaid changes, like
letting states
add a work requirement for the
program and
giving states the option of a
block grant
Medicaid payment that would
likely cut the
program.
Finally, a new limit from
Republicans: No
new states could join the
Medicaid expansion.
Add to that, again, for
conservatives, faster
tax cuts.
This new version would repeal of
all Obamacare
taxes immediately, instead of
next year.
But those changes didn't go far
enough for
some in the conservative Freedom
Caucus, like
Ohio's Jim Jordan.
QUESTION: Congratulations on
the...
REP.
JIM JORDAN (R), Ohio: Oh, it
wasn't as good
as we hoped.
LISA DESJARDINS: He is still a
hard no, as
the Freedom Caucus seems split.
This is why last night's changes
also offer
something to a different group:
moderates.
For them, Republicans added
roughly $85 billion
in tax deductions for health
care, with the
idea that the Senate will target
that money
more to seniors.
As a result, Representative Tom
MacArthur
of New Jersey is now a yes.
REP.
TOM MACARTHUR (R), New Jersey:
The speaker,
the majority leader of the
Senate and the
president have all agreed that
they would
publicly make it clear that's
the only purpose
for which they will support the
use of the
$85 billion that we put into the
bill.
LISA DESJARDINS: But it's close.
Freshman Dan Donovan is still
thinking.
REP.
DAN DONOVAN (R), New York: I'm
not saying
yet.
LISA DESJARDINS: It's close
enough that GOP
leaders are looking for votes
from small groups,
like members from Upstate New
York.
Last night, Republicans added a
provision
saying billions in county
Medicaid costs must
be picked up by New York State.
Representative Chris Collins
pushed the idea.
REP.
CHRIS COLLINS (R), New York: It
shifts the
burden from the local taxpayer
back to the
state government, which is how
it's handled
in every other state in the
nation.
LISA DESJARDINS: But New York
Democrat Joe
Crowley balked.
REP.
JOE CROWLEY (D), New York: This
will significantly
hurt individuals in New York who
could face
a multibillion-dollar Medicaid
shortfall if
this amendment were to be
included.
SEN.
CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY), Minority
Leader: Their
bill is such a miss.
LISA DESJARDINS: Another key New
York Democrat,
Senate Minority Leader Chuck
Schumer, railed
against the bill and aimed
squarely down Pennsylvania
Avenue.
SEN.
CHUCK SCHUMER: President Trump,
who has tried
to put his name on nearly
everything in his
career, ties, steaks, water,
doesn't want
his name on this bill.
Well, the president himself is
here on the
Hill today to sell the bill to
House Republicans.
Make no mistake.
This is Trumpcare.
LISA DESJARDINS: Democrats hope
this health
care vote sinks some of these
Republicans
in two years and the president
in four.
But Mr. President Trump is
selling the opposite
message,
DONALD TRUMP: There are going to
be adjustments
made, but I think we will get
the vote on
Thursday.
(CROSSTALK)
LISA DESJARDINS: ... that
Republicans need
this bill to survive.
The vote remains very close at
this hour.
And tomorrow could be a key day.
House leadership sources tell me
they expect
a kind of updated score from the
Congressional
Budget Office on their bill.
Remember, that initial
conclusion from the
CBO on the first bill came up
with the forecast
that 24 million Americans fewer
would have
insurance under the House GOP
plan.
We will see if the changes
affect that conclusion
-- Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Lisa, that
would be interesting
if the Congressional Budget
Office came out
with a different analysis.
Also striking today, the
president's warning
to lawmakers that they could
lose their seats,
as you were reporting.
How close does the White House
and do the
Republican leaders on the Hill
think this
is?
LISA DESJARDINS: I spoke with a
spokeswoman
from House Speaker Paul Ryan's
office.
And she said to me -- I said, is
it close?
She said, yes, absolutely.
We know that it's close.
But we're pushing forward to
that Thursday
vote.
Let's talk about the more kind
of concrete
numbers, Judy.
Essentially, House Republicans
can lose 21
of their members, maybe 22 on
this vote, and
still get it across the finish
line.
I spoke to some members of the
Freedom Caucus,
like Tom Massie.
He told me his personal whip
count has 30
hard no's, way more than the 21.
It's very fluid right now.
Are those hard no's or not?
Very difficult to say, Judy.
But it's incredibly close, if
not leaning
away from the direction where
House Speaker
Ryan wants it to go.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And then, Lisa,
as you just
reported, this afternoon, Lisa,
the White
House called in more moderate
Republicans
to try to persuade them.
What are the arguments they're
using with
them?
LISA DESJARDINS: This is part of
the full-court
press.
They want those moderate votes.
They are telling those moderates
that they
believe that this whole plan
will, in fact,
make health care better for
those in their
districts by bring down
premiums, offering
more choices.
It's the kind of core Republican
arguments
we have seen, but they have got
to stare straight
in the face of many of these
moderates who
have heavy Medicaid populations,
lots of folks
on Medicaid, and they are
concerned about
what will happen to them.
I talked to Charlie Dent.
He is one of those moderate
members concerned
about Medicaid.
He walked out of that White
House office.
I spoke to him.
And he said he still has the
same reservations
that he had going in.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Lisa,
finally, if they
are able to get it through the
House, what
are the early indications in the
Senate?
LISA DESJARDINS: There's trouble
there too,
Judy.
Right now, we know of at least
two Republican
senators, Rand Paul and Mike
Lee, who say
that they are no's on this exact
bill, Mike
Lee restating his emphatic
opposition in the
past day.
And they can't lose any more
Republicans than
that.
But not just talking about
moderates.
Some core members of the
Republican leadership
over there like Bob Corker are
questioning
this bill and questioning what
it would mean
for health care in their states,
so, a lot
of questions, not just here, but
also on the
Senate side.
Remember, Judy, this is on a
very fast pace.
The idea is to go through House
Rules tomorrow.
They would have a long day on
the House floor
Thursday.
Then, the earliest it could get
to the Senate
is maybe even for a vote on
Tuesday.
That's the best-case scenario
for Republicans,
maybe getting this whole thing
to the White
House next week.
But, Judy, right now, it also
looks like a
worst-case is possible, which
you and I are
standing here talking about the
House vote
still next week.
All to be determined.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And a lot of
moving parts.
Lisa, thank you very much.
I know you're watching it all.
And we will be talking to you
more about it.
Thank you, Lisa.
Now back to examination of the
second day
of Senate hearings to confirm
federal Judge
Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme
Court.
Joining me at the table today,
"PBS NewsHour"
hour Supreme Court analyst
Marcia Coyle of
"The National Law Journal," Amy
Howe, editor
of SCOTUSblog.com.
Pam Karlan, she's a professor of
law at Stanford
University.
She worked in the Justice
Department during
the Obama administration.
And Ilya Shapiro is a senior
fellow in constitutional
studies at the Cato Institute.
It's a libertarian think tank.
And we welcome all of you to the
program.
Thanks for being here.
Let's take a look first at just
a couple of
the exchanges that came this
morning, starting
with a question from the
chairman of the Judiciary
Committee, Senator Chuck
Grassley.
SEN.
CHARLES GRASSLEY (R), Iowa: Tell
us whether
you would have any trouble
ruling against
a president who appointed you.
NEIL GORSUCH, Supreme Court
Nominee: That's
a softball, Mr. Chairman.
I have no difficulty ruling
against or for
any party, other than based on
what the law
and the facts in the particular
case require.
I'm heartened by the support I
have received
from people who recognize that
there's no
such thing as a Republican judge
or a Democratic
judge.
We just have judges in this
country.
SEN.
DIANNE FEINSTEIN (D),
California: President
Trump and others have said you
are the next
Scalia.
So, I think it's only fair to
ask you, do
you disagree with any of the
majority opinions
that Judge Scalia joined in
these cases?
NEIL GORSUCH: If I indicate my
agreement or
disagreement with a past
precedent of the
United States Supreme Court, I'm
doing two
things that worry me, sitting
here.
The first thing I'm doing is,
I'm signaling
to future litigants that I can't
be a fair
judge in their case.
SEN.
DIANNE FEINSTEIN: Then how do we
have confidence
in you that you won't just be
for the big
corporations, that you will be
for the little
man?
NEIL GORSUCH: So, what I think
can give you
comfort in this area is,
Senator, I know a
case or two has been mentioned
yesterday.
Respectfully, I suggest that
doesn't represent
the body of my work.
I have written 2,700 -- I
participated in
2,700 opinions over 10.5 years.
And if you want cases where I
have ruled for
the little guy, as well as the
big guy, there
are plenty of them, Senator.
SEN.
PATRICK LEAHY (D), Vermont:
President Trump
promised a Muslim ban.
He still has on his Web site to
this day -- he's
called for a total and complete
shutdown of
Muslims entering the United
States.
And a Republican congressman
recently said
the best thing the president
could do for
his Muslim ban is to make sure
he has Gorsuch
on the Supreme Court before the
appeals get
to that point.
NEIL GORSUCH: Senator, a lot of
people say
a lot of silly things.
SEN.
PATRICK LEAHY: Well, that's more
than silly.
That's a -- he wants -- this
congressman wants
you on the court so they can
uphold a Muslim
ban.
NEIL GORSUCH: Senator, he has no
idea how
I would rule in that case.
And, Senator, I am not going to
say anything
here that would give anybody any
idea how
I would rule in any case like
that that could
come before the Supreme Court or
my court
of the 10th Circuit.
It would be grossly improper of
a judge to
do that.
It would be a violation of the
separation
of powers and judicial
independence if someone
sitting at this table, in order
to get confirmed,
had to make promises or
commitments about
how they would rule in a case
that's currently
pending and likely to way its
way to the Supreme
Court.
SEN.
PATRICK LEAHY: Are -- the
president's national
security determinations, are
those reviewable
by the court?
NEIL GORSUCH: Senator, no man is
above the
law.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Those are just a
few excerpts.
Those were mainly this morning.
There are more we're going to
show you in
just a minute.
But let's talk about what we
just saw.
And we want to remind our
viewers that these
hearings are still going on.
They're expected to go into the
evening tonight
here in Washington.
Marcia Coyle, first, we heard
Judge Gorsuch
say, I have -- he has no idea
how he would
rule in that case.
And he is basically saying to
these senators,
I'm not going to tell you how
I'm going to
do, what I'm going to think
about any case.
Was he successful in really not
sharing that
kind of information?
MARCIA COYLE, "The National Law
Journal":
Well, I think the senators are
accustomed
to hearing that from Supreme
Court nominees.
That is a very common response
to questions
about particular cases that
might come before
the Supreme Court or older
decisions of the
Supreme Court.
But, Judy, the thing I took away
from the
early exchange is the emphasis
in the questions
and in the defense by
Republicans of the judge's
independence from President
Trump.
And this is a burden for Judge
Gorsuch.
And I think it's entirely of
President Trump's
creation, based on his speech in
the campaign
that he would appoint judges who
would overrule
Roe v. Wade, as well as his
criticism of federal
judges.
So, I think the question -- to
me, that was
a dominant theme on both sides,
one, the Democrats
trying to show he may not be
independent,
and the Republicans buttressing
his independence.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Ilya Shapiro with
the Cato
Institute, is that how you heard
what was
going on today?
ILYA SHAPIRO, Cato Institute:
Well, I think
he did a good job in rebutting
any charges
that he was a stooge of
President Trump of
some sort.
I'm not sure what a Trumpian or
a populist
kind of judge would be.
I mean, he was straight from
Federalist Society
central casting.
I'm a card-carrying member of
that so-called
far-right extremist
organization, as some
senators called it, by the way.
And so I think it's not going to
stick to
the wall, trying to call him an
associate
with some of the more
controversial pronouncements
of the president.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Pam Karlan, same
question.
Were these senators able to pin
Judge Gorsuch
in one direction or another
today?
PAM KARLAN, Stanford Law School:
Well, I think
there was one place -- and this
is kind of
interesting, given your excerpt
-- where he
did give an indication, because
having said
to Senator Feinstein that he
wouldn't say
anything about which opinions he
agreed with
or not, he then went out of his
way several
times to praise Justice Scalia's
opinion in
a case called United States
against Jones
about GPS devices on cars.
And he said, well, you know, the
principles
of the Fourth Amendment don't
change, but
technology does.
What's interesting here is, the
question,
as Senator Klobuchar kind of
made clear in
her questioning is, well, what
else changes?
Because if Judge Gorsuch can say
the Fourth
Amendment carries through, even
though James
Madison didn't know about DNA or
GPS, what
about the fact that the framers
didn't know
about the fact that gay people
can have loving
relationships the same way
straight people
can?
And when Judge Gorsuch says, no
man is above
the law, the real question is,
what's the
law?
Does the Constitution prohibit
the president
from making xenophobic or
religiously bigots
exclusions of people from the
United States,
or doesn't it?
So, saying no man is above the
law doesn't
answer the question of what the
law is.
And I think that's the stake of
what's going
on today in the hearings.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Amy Howe with
SCOTUSblog, so,
what did you pick up from all
this?
AMY HOWE, SCOTUSblog.com: As
Marcia said,
I mean, there wasn't a lot of
substance.
And, again, that's something
that the senators
do expect.
And that carried over even to
some other areas
where we have gotten some
substantive responses
from nominees in the past.
Senator Amy Klobuchar of
Minnesota asked Judge
Gorsuch about his views on
cameras in the
courtroom.
And, normally, what we have
gotten from the
last few nominees is, you know,
something
along the lines of, well, that
sounds interesting.
Of course, I would have to talk
to my colleagues
about it once I was on the
Supreme Court,
if I were fortunate enough to be
appointed.
And Gorsuch wouldn't even go
that far.
He said that he hadn't really
thought about
it, which was kind of
surprising, given that
it has come up at the last few
confirmation
hearings.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And he said he
was open to
it, but he wouldn't -- he
certainly wouldn't
commit in either direction.
Marcia, back to you.
On the -- when Senator Leahy was
trying to
get him to talk about the travel
ban, the
notion, comments that President
Trump made
during the campaign about
whether he would
-- whether people who were
Muslim should be
banned and trying to tie it to
what's happened
more recently, you spoke earlier
about this
effort to figure out how
independent he is
from the president.
MARCIA COYLE: Right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Was he
successful, do you think,
in persuading these senators
that he is his
own man?
MARCIA COYLE: Well, I think,
probably, a number
of senators have already made up
their minds
about Judge Gorsuch and how
they're going
to vote or not vote for him.
I think Judge Gorsuch did the
best he could
in terms of answering the
questions.
Senator Leahy also did the best
he could to
get him to respond to even broad
questions,
like, is a religious test
constitutional under
the First Amendment?
He tried a back-door way, a
front-door way.
And it ultimately -- the judge
would only
talk in broad terms, and finally
said, it
seems to me the facts that
you're giving sound
very much like cases that are
now pending
around the country, meaning the
travel ban.
And so he wasn't going to tip
his hand on
that.
But you're right.
This all has to do with
independence.
And I can tell you, Judy, I have
never seen
in recent Supreme Court
confirmation hearings
so much emphasis on trying to
find out if
a nominee is independent of the
appointing
president.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, let's
listen to two other
excerpts.
Now, these came this afternoon.
They begin with Rhode Island
Democratic Senator
Sheldon Whitehouse, raised the
question of
so-called dark money.
This is money in the political
campaigns in
American politics that is spent
anonymously.
We don't know who is giving the
money.
That's how that exchange
started.
And then you will hear another
one.
SEN.
SHELDON WHITEHOUSE (D), Rhode
Island: Now,
we have this $10 million that is
being spent
on behalf of your confirmation.
Do you think, for instance, that
we on this
panel ought to know who is
behind that?
NEIL GORSUCH: Senator, that's a
policy question
for this body.
And there's ample room for this
body to pass
disclosure laws for dark money
or anything
else it wishes to.
It can be tested in the courts.
So, Senator, with all respect,
the ball is
in your court.
SEN.
SHELDON WHITEHOUSE: Is it any
cause of concern
to you that your nomination is
the focus of
a $10 million political spending
effort, and
we don't know who is behind it?
NEIL GORSUCH: Senator, there is
a lot about
the confirmation process today
that I regret.
A lot.
SEN.
SHELDON WHITEHOUSE: Yes?
NEIL GORSUCH: A lot.
When Byron White sat here, it
was 90 minutes.
He was through this body in two
weeks.
And he smoked cigarettes while
he gave his
testimony.
There is a great deal about this
process I
regret.
I regret putting my family
through this.
SEN.
SHELDON WHITEHOUSE: But to my
question?
NEIL GORSUCH: Senator, the fact
of the matter
is, it is what it is, and it's
this body that
makes the laws.
And if you wish to have more
disclosure, pass
a law, and a judge will enforce
it, Senator.
SEN.
AL FRANKEN (D), Minnesota: Well,
let's think
back to 2004 election.
Let's look at Ohio, where you
volunteered.
Ohio is one of 11 states in 2004
where Republicans
working to support the
reelection campaign
also worked to put anti-gay
marriage amendments
on the ballot.
Now, you were a campaign worker
in Ohio.
You were a member of the group
Lawyers for
Bush/Cheney.
As a lawyer and as a student of
the Constitution,
how did you feel about the right
the marry
being put to a popular vote?
NEIL GORSUCH: Senator, I don't
recall any
involvement in that issue during
that campaign.
I remember going to Ohio.
SEN.
AL FRANKEN: Were you aware of
that issue at
all?
NEIL GORSUCH: Oh, certainly I
was aware of
it.
SEN.
AL FRANKEN: And how did you feel
about it?
NEIL GORSUCH: Senator, my
personal views -- any
revelation of my personal views
about this
matter would indicate to people
how I might
rule as a judge, mistakenly, but
it might.
And I have to be concerned about
that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I want to
come right out
of that to Ilya Shapiro and say,
the Democratic
senators made a point of noting
that Judge
Gorsuch has worked in the past
in Republican
political campaigns.
Does that have an effect, should
it have any
effect on how senators consider
these nominees?
ILYA SHAPIRO: I don't think
that's unusual.
Justice Kagan, for example,
during her hearing,
it came up how she worked from
her college
days all the way through the
Clinton White
House in very political roles.
She wrote an article in my
former newspaper,
The Daily Princetonian, about
her experiences
in a congressional race.
And that's not disqualifying.
In fact, it would be odd for
someone who wants
to be involved in public life to
never have
expressed any sort of political
views or acted
on some firmly held beliefs.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What about that,
Pam Karlan,
and then, of course, going on to
note that
the judge declined to say
anything about what
he remembered about the role of
gay rights
being on the ballot in that Ohio
campaign
back in 2004?
PAM KARLAN: Well, the thing is,
everybody
who is nominated to the Supreme
Court gives
exactly the same kinds of
answers to those
questions.
But we all recognize that the
justices are
going to differ when those
issues come up
to the Supreme Court.
And so the real question is, how
do they go
about thinking about those
issues?
And I think Senator Klobuchar
made a major
effort to get Judge Gorsuch to
talk about
originalism.
And he was willing to talk about
it when it
came to technology, and say that
technology
had changed.
So, for example, movies are now
protected,
even though there were no movies
in 1789,
and GPS devices are -- on cars
constitute
a search because they would be a
trespass
in 1789.
But he didn't recognize, for
example, that
society changes in the same way.
And I thought it was really
quite striking
that he admits that the word he
and his in
the Constitution now include
women, but he
doesn't seem interested or
willing in talking
about those issues when they
don't involve
the kinds of claims that
movement conservatives
have raised in the past.
She also made another point that
I just want
to kind of get out there, and
that is that
Judge Gorsuch a number of times
in some of
the cases that he likes the
highlight as his
more liberal or little guy
decisions then
goes on after the narrow
pro-little guy ruling
to put in these concurrences the
kind of hints
where he might want to go if he
were on the
Supreme Court.
And he said, well, I'm just kind
of raising
my hand to show my bosses what
questions are
out there.
It's really educational what
those questions
are, because one of the ones
that he's raised
is whether campaign
contributions should be
subject to the same kind of
strict scrutiny
under the First Amendment that
other forms
of spending get.
And that's a really big issue,
because...
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: I just want to
interrupt, because
I do want to get to -- I think
that's an interesting
point that you raise.
And, Amy Howe, did we learn
something about
that from him today?
AMY HOWE: He -- as Pam said, he
really sort
of talked about it in terms of,
well, it's
not my job to decide this issue.
I can't overrule the Chevron
case, the idea
that you should defer to an
agency's determination,
but I wanted to flag it for my
bosses.
And on the point about politics,
I think there
was a little Democrats trying to
have their
cake and eat it, too, here,
because, on the
one hand, one of the Democratic
senators was
lamenting that there wouldn't be
anyone on
the Supreme Court who held
public office.
And, on the other hand, Senator
Al Franken
was essentially accusing Judge
Gorsuch of
having been involved in politics
in the context
of talking about Judge Garland,
because Judge
Gorsuch such put off questions
about Judge
Garland earlier with a sentence
about, well,
that's politics, and I don't get
involved
in politics.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Who was President
Obama's nominee
-- Who was President Obama's...
ILYA SHAPIRO: You know, his one
campaign finance
case that he was on was a
unanimous decision
written by an Obama appointee.
So, I don't think -- you know,
it just goes
into, he really does a good job
of reading
the cases before him; 97 percent
of them were
unanimous.
I think he had fewer dissents
from his opinions
than his colleagues on the 10th
Circuit.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And yet, Marcia,
you have pointed
out that it's different on an
appellate court
than it is at the Supreme Court.
MARCIA COYLE: It is.
And I think this is really hard
stuff to get
across in a Senate hearing.
Senator Franken's question,
especially about
LGBT, same-sex marriage, he
couldn't say,
well, you know, how does an
originalist view
this, and would you have been
with Justice
Scalia in dissent on those cases
that broaden
the rights?
It's just very hard, so he had
to go in a
backward sort of way to try to
see what the
judge was thinking.
In fact, at one point, Judge
Gorsuch sort
of criticized one of the
senators for picking
one case to show he was against
the little
guy.
He said, if you're going to pick
and choose
cases, well, I can pick and
choose cases that
show I'm for the little guy.
But the senators said, we pick
and choose
because we're trying to find out
who you are.
And this is what they have got.
They have got to hone in on
things like that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Pam Karlan,
speaking of
who he is, I thought he showed
more personality,
I think, than we expected to see
today, and
I guess a little bit yesterday.
There was humor.
There was a sort of jockeying
with the senators
a little bit.
But just quickly, I want to get
each one of
you.
We only have about a minute.
Do you think the senators did
the job they
needed to do today to pull out
of him what
they should?
I want to ask you each in 10 or
15 seconds.
PAM KARLAN: Well, I can do it in
one second.
No.
(LAUGHTER)
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right.
That calls for a follow-up
tomorrow.
Amy Howe?
AMY HOWE: I think they did.
I think it was a little subdued
in the first
-- the morning, but I think that
Senators
Whitehouse, Klobuchar and
Franken in particular
tried to really talk substance
with him.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What do you
think, Ilya?
ILYA SHAPIRO: I think there
wasn't that much
here that we didn't already
know, if you had
already been doing your homework
and reading
his opinions beforehand.
I doubt this hearing will change
anybody's
vote on either the filibuster or
the nomination
side.
But, hopefully, it educates the
public about
the sorts of issues that
senators and judges
deal with.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Marcia?
MARCIA COYLE: That's -- the last
point is
what I agree with.
I think they did the job they
had to do in
order to lay out for the
American public what
some of the concerns are with
Judge Gorsuch's
nomination.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right.
You all were terrific.
And we have got more hearings
tomorrow.
Witnesses will be testifying.
Amy Howe, Ilya Shapiro, Marcia
Coyle, Pam
Karlan, thank you all.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And tomorrow
morning, you can
turn to our Web site and our
social media
channels to watch continued live
coverage
of the Gorsuch hearings in its
third day.
You can also find our live blog
of news, of
commentary and analysis related
to the confirmation
proceedings.
That's at PBS.org/NewsHour.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In the day's
other news: Wall
Street took its worst losses of
the year amid
investor angst over the Russia
investigation,
the health care fight and the
implications
for President Trump's larger
agenda.
The Dow Jones industrial average
lost nearly
238 points, to close at 20, 668.
The Nasdaq fell 107 points, and
the S&P gave
up 29.
The Trump administration
signaled today it's
reviewing the longstanding U.S.
goal of a
world without nuclear weapons.
Christopher Ford, who is a
senior official
at president's National Security
Council,
said that the White House is
evaluating if
that remains -- quote --
"realistic."
He also said that, pending a
review, the U.S.
will strictly adhere to the Iran
nuclear deal
that President Trump has
previously condemned.
Northern Ireland today marked
the death Of
Martin McGuinness, one-time
commander of the
Irish Republican Army who
ultimately made
peace.
A funeral procession snaked
through Londonderry,
as remembrances poured in.
Former British Prime Minister
Tony Blair worked
with McGuinness to achieve
Northern Ireland's
1998 peace accords.
TONY BLAIR, Former British Prime
Minister:
The same fierceness that he
bought to the
armed struggle, he then brought
to the cause
of peace.
And he was determined to give
Northern Ireland
a different future from the past
that he had
grown up in.
And that leadership and the
courage in bringing
his movement with him was, for
me, and will
be the defining legacy of Martin
McGuinness.
JUDY WOODRUFF: McGuinness was
deputy first
minister in Northern Ireland
from 2007 until
he resigned in January due to a
rare heart
condition.
Martin McGuinness was 66 years
old.
President Trump signed a bill
today that makes
human exploration of Mars a
priority.
It's part of a NASA funding
bill.
The Oval Office ceremony
included senators,
congressmen and former
astronauts.
Mr. Trump said the new law
reaffirms the space
agency's core mission.
And this was the first ever
National Rosie
the Riveter Day.
Events across the country today
paid tribute
to women who worked in American
factories
and shipyards during World War
II.
Most are now in their 80s and
90s.
They redefined gender roles in
the workplace
after male workers went off to
war.
Bless them.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
checked baggage,
new rules for electronics on
direct flights
to the U.S. on foreign airlines
from 10 cities;
all in one, a preschool,
greenhouse and mental
health care center; the big
show, recognizing
the nation's most celebrated
artists amid
the country's political and
cultural divides;
and much more.
The Department of Homeland
Security has added
new security precautions to
flights from 10
specific airports in the Middle
East.
William Brangham has the story.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Passengers
flying out of
these airports can no longer
take large electronic
devices, things like laptops or
mobile gaming
devices or tablets, on board
with them.
Those devices have to be in
checked luggage
only.
Cell phones are still allowed on
board.
The new restrictions apply to
flights from
10 specific airports in Jordan,
Egypt, Turkey,
Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Morocco,
Qatar, and
the United Arab Emirates.
The British today announced a
similar move,
but they included some different
airports
in their ban.
We turn now to Matthew Olsen for
more on this.
He was the director of the
National Counterterrorism
Center during the Obama
administration.
And he now teaches at Harvard
University.
Welcome.
I wonder if you could just tell
me a little
bit, what is going on here?
MATTHEW OLSEN, Former Director,
National Counterterrorism
Center: Well, it would appear
that, almost
certainly, there is some new
intelligence
that the intelligence community
has gathered,
whether on its own or from one
of our partners
in the region, that has given
the government,
in particular the Department of
Homeland Security,
increased concern about the
possibility that
a terrorist organization has
developed some
type of bomb that it can hide in
a device
like a laptop.
You know, whether that is
brand-new intelligence
or maybe just new analysis of
existing intelligence,
it's hard to say, but,
certainly, there is
some new piece of information
that has given
the government more cause for
concern in this
particular context.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: I mean,
clearly, it also
seems that we have lost faith in
these particular
airports, either in their
ability to screen
luggage or their ability to weed
out infiltrators
amongst their staff.
Is that right?
MATTHEW OLSEN: Well, we have
always had concern
about airports in this region,
and we have
always placed additional
screening requirements
on flights that leave from these
airports
and don't stop before reaching
the United
States.
But the truth is that the best
place to stop
a terrorist attack, a plot like
this, is at
the earliest possible stage,
where you can
have intelligence that allows
you to identify
those individuals who are
responsible for
the plot.
The last opportunity really is
at those airports,
and really you are at least
hoping that you're
going to be able to stop a bomb
once it reaches
the airport gate.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: I mean, you
were in the
Obama administration when these
kinds of decisions
were being made all the time, I
imagine.
Can you give us a sense of what
kind of intelligence
would trigger this kind of an
action?
MATTHEW OLSEN: Sure.
I mean, for one, this was a
source of constant
concern when I was at the
National Counterterrorism
Center.
And, if you will recall, there
have been three
plots just since 2009 to try to
put a bomb
on an airplane bound for the
United States.
So, this has been an area of
real concern
because of the determination of
terrorist
groups to blow up an airplane
bound for the
United States.
But the way this information may
well come
to light is a number of ways.
One is through intercept of
communications
between terrorists talking about
something
like this.
It could come from our allies in
the region
and their intelligence sources,
whether those
are electronic surveillance or
-- come from
electronic surveillance or from
human sources.
But, certainly, there is some
new information
from one of these types of
sources that then
gets put into the system here,
and analysts
go over it, and they compare it
to what we
know from the past, and come up
with a judgment
that then is supplied to the
Department of
Homeland Security, which
ultimately makes
the decision about what
limitations to enforce
on planes bound for the U.S.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Can you
explain the distinction
here between carry-on vs.
checked luggage?
I mean, if I have somehow
smuggled a bomb
onto a computer or some
electronic device,
what difference does it make if
it's with
me in the cabin or just below my
feet in my
checked luggage?
MATTHEW OLSEN: Well, there are
some instances
where we have seen devices --
think back to
the underwear bomb in Detroit in
2009 -- where
the actual detonation of the
device required
actual human interaction.
So, the person had to have
access to the device
in order to detonate it.
So, that is obviously a clear
distinction
between having checked luggage
and why there
is a greater concern with
somebody who has
got immediate access to --
potentially immediate
access to a device because they
were able
to bring it on to an airplane,
as opposed
to being required to check it.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Does the fact
that the British
have also instituted a similar
ban, albeit
with some slightly different
airports, does
that you greater confidence that
this is really
a substantive threat?
MATTHEW OLSEN: Well, it
certainly does, at
least in the sense that the
United Kingdom
and the United States work
incredibly closely
together on all these types of
issues and
share intelligence.
It certainly suggests to me at
least that
the U.K. and the U.S. are in
lockstep in how
they're reading whatever new
information there
may be that has caused this
concern.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: I mean,
obviously, the administration
says that this is not related to
its recent
travel bans, but it's sort of
hard to overlook
the timing, that these things
are happening
at the same time.
Do you see a relation between
those?
MATTHEW OLSEN: You know, I
really don't, I
think, because this has been an
issue that's
been around for several years
through a number
of administrations going back to
President
Bush, President Obama, and now
President Trump.
This appears to be a
continuation of a concern
that has been in place -- that
has been in
place for some time.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: All right.
Matthew Olsen of Harvard
University, thanks
very much.
MATTHEW OLSEN: Sure.
JUDY WOODRUFF: After years of
neglect, parents
in one of Denver's poorest
neighborhoods hoped
that a new preschool would be
built in their
community.
Instead, they got much more.
William Brangham recently
visited there, and
he is back again with this
report.
It's part of our weekly series
Making the
Grade.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Fish swim in
giant tanks.
Collard greens grow in abundance
in a massive
greenhouse.
Down the hall, there's a
dentist's office,
as well as a mental health
center.
And at the other end of the
building, 3-,
4-, and 5-year-olds run around
like mad.
Some might say it's an unusual
mix here in
the heart of one of Denver's
poorest neighborhoods,
but not according to the woman
who runs the
place.
DR.
LYDIA PRADO, Dahlia Campus for
Health and
Well-Being: It's taking a new
approach to
community well-being.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Dr. Lydia
Prado is the driving
force behind this place.
It's called the Dahlia Campus
for Health and
Well-Being.
DR.
LYDIA PRADO: My initial
conversations were
with two folks who had --
together, they have
over 80 years of residence in
this community.
And just floated the idea, I
want to take
integrated care to the next
level.
I want to think comprehensively
about health.
I want to be able to talk about
mental health,
and went to talk to them about
it, and it's
like, what do you think?
And they're like, oh.
But, you know, they were very
honest about
it.
There are going to be
challenges, but if anybody's
going to give it a shot -- and
we're behind
you.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: For Prado,
building partnerships
early on was key.
Heidi Heissenbuttel came on
board early, bringing
a branch of her Sewall Child
Development Center
to the new campus.
Sewall's been a pioneer in
what's known as
inclusive education, teaching
children with
special needs -- that is, kids
with autism
or those with emotional or
behavioral issues
-- and putting them in
classrooms with their
more typically developing peers.
Heissenbuttel says the evidence
is clear that
this approach works for all
kids.
HEIDI HEISSENBUTTEL, Sewall
Child Development
Center: They learn to expect
that every child
learns differently, and they go
on to their
elementary classrooms, and they
become advocates
for kids who learn differently.
And they will tell teachers, you
need to work
with that child, or why can't he
participate
on the playground, or we want
him in our group.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: We observed
three classrooms.
Here, the Tigers have circle
time.
Then they moved on to center
time, an hour
when the children get to pick
what they want
to do, as teachers float through
the classroom
facilitating vocabulary-building
and individual
lessons.
One-third of the children here
have some special
need, some with diagnosed
developmental problems.
Plus, 40 percent of the kids
here suffer from
what's known as toxic stress.
HEIDI HEISSENBUTTEL: Toxic
stress is the result
of poverty, abuse and neglect,
domestic violence,
just life's circumstances, when
you -- when
a family lives under stress.
And what the best treatment, for
children
to have loving, stable
relationships in their
lives.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Arnesha Poke's
son Adrian
(ph) attends the pre-K, and she
says this
inclusive approach is important
to her.
ARNESHA POKE, Mother: Instead
of, like, separating
the kids off and stuff, they
need to all be
together, so they can learn each
other and
learn each other's emotional
ways, and stuff
like that.
DR.
LYDIA PRADO: In the community
conversation,
it was extremely important, this
idea of inclusivity,
because it was -- it's parallel
to a community's
desire to be included and
inclusive.
There's a lot of experience of
being separated
out.
DIANE GREENBERG, Mother: I
thought she would
kind of fall in with the rest of
the kids
and just do -- not have any
problems, issues
at all.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Diane
Greenberg and her
daughter Karai (ph) used to live
in a homeless
shelter.
She says this preschool has been
life-changing.
DIANE GREENBERG: I love this
place because
it helps me understand how to
deal with that.
It helps me understand how to
help her.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The
staff-to-child ratio
here is one to five, whereas the
state only
mandates a 1-10 ratio.
TRINA POKE, Teacher: I think we
all respect
each other and we all do like
each other enough.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Teachers Trina
Poke and
Christine Krall.
TRINA POKE: We just kind of get
so used to
each other that we do just tend
to feed off
of each other like that.
CHRISTINE KRALL, Teacher: I
especially feel
sometimes that it's not easy to
see what I'm
doing.
And that's when I will share,
like, the rationale
and things like that during team
meetings,
so it doesn't look like I'm just
playing,
because there is a method to the
madness.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Some of the
madness is designed
to calm children down who may be
having a
tough time.
Heather Luehers is a social
worker.
HEATHER LUEHERS, Social Worker:
When kids
can't pay attention to parents,
when they
are so dysregulated, they have
problems, because
they move inside themselves, and
they just
run around the classroom.
And I think, in some of our
classrooms, you
see that.
So, what I'm doing with this
child is saying,
I'm the adult, I'm in charge,
you don't need
to be in charge, because these
kids that need
to be in charge with parents
that are absent
don't do well.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: A full-day
preschool program
with all this staff doesn't come
cheap.
For a typically developing
child, it's $252
a week.
For a child with special needs
who requires
more staffing, it's $387.
And 90 percent of the families
in this neighborhood
need financial help.
Many pay based on what they can
afford.
But research shows the return on
that investment
is high.
Every $1 spent on early
education returns
$13 in savings down the road.
In addition to being one of the
poorest neighborhoods
in Denver, this area is also
what's called
a food desert.
What that means is, according to
the USDA,
is that, if you live in a big
city, you don't
have a good grocery store within
about a mile
of your house.
This neighborhood, it's over two
miles to
a good grocery store.
That's about a 45-minute walk.
Even worse, this is what's known
as a food
swamp, where all that's
available what's available
is fast food and the generally
poor nutrition
that comes with it.
That's where those fish and
collard greens
come in.
Tilapia and catfish were the
fish the community
said they want.
And collard greens and Swiss
chard were the
top choices for leafy greens.
JENNA SMITH, Runs Aquaponics
Greenhouse: And
so you will see the roots just
hang down into
the water, and they can just
soak it up as
they need it.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Wow.
Jenna Smith runs this aquaponics
greenhouse,
which uses one continuous loop
of recycled,
cleaned water for the entire
operation.
JENNA SMITH: Healthy food is
foundational
to overall health and
well-being.
It's a very important component
to having
-- helping kids to grow up, pay
attention
in class, you know, be strong
and active.
And what better way to do that
than to have
it right on site?
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Where these
greens now grow
used to be the site of the
country's largest
African-American-owned mall.
But the businesses went
bankrupt, and the
lot was abandoned for decades.
Longtime resident and urban
farmer Beverly
Grant talked to us in the huge
kitchen at
Dahlia, a space where students
sort lettuce
for food boxes they take home,
and where community
members can take cooking
classes.
BEVERLY GRANT, Business Owner:
We have shifted
from food desert to food oasis.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Grant runs her
own traveling
farm stand, and she met Lydia
Prado early
in the planning stages.
BEVERLY GRANT: The blessing is
that Dr. Prado
had amazing listening ears and a
compassionate
heart.
And when she heard the stories
of people like
me and others, she was like,
hmm, we could
probably do something about
that.
You get that little nod from
her, consider
that done.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: As Grant likes
to say, from
seed to stomach.
During our visit, preschoolers
were learning
that very lesson, planting
seedlings that
will later be transplanted into
their urban
farm, and could very likely end
up on their
own kitchen tables.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
William Brangham
in Denver, Colorado.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Every two years
since 1932,
the Whitney Museum in New York
has put on
an exhibition meant to showcase
cutting-edge
American art, as chosen by that
year's curators.
The Whitney Biennial is
sometimes loved, sometimes
hated, but it always gets huge
crowds and
attention from the critics.
Jeffrey Brown takes a look at
the latest edition
just opened in New York.
JEFFREY BROWN: The Whitney
Biennial, a must-see
exhibition for anyone interested
in contemporary
art, a snapshot of American
creativity and
sometimes American culture.
Featuring 63 artists, this is a
relatively
intimate show as these go.
It's the first biennial at the
Whitney Museum's
new Lower Manhattan building,
which was designed
by architect Renzo Piano and
opened in 2015,
and the first in 20 years
organized during
a presidential campaign.
So, what did curators
Christopher Lew and
Mia Locks find when talking with
artists and
putting together the exhibition?
No surprise, perhaps, a sense of
unease and
anxiety.
MIA LOCKS, Whitney Museum of
American Art:
It's been a tumultuous few
years.
For better or for worse, I think
a presidential
election can sometimes be a
moment when we,
as a country and as a kind of
society, do
ask ourselves pretty hard
questions about
how we understand ourselves
individually and
collectively.
JEFFREY BROWN: So, what did you
see artists
saying?
CHRISTOPHER Y.
LEW, Whitney Museum of American
Art: They're
thinking about the world in
which they live
in, and that can be defined in
different ways.
But they may be thinking about a
specific
neighborhood, or they're
thinking about the
city, and that what they're
making is intended
to kind of speak back to
society.
For them, it's not just a kind
of precious
bubble just to kind of look at,
in and of
itself.
JEFFREY BROWN: In a photography
series shot
over a year-and-a-half, Oto
Gillen captures
some of the mood and changes
brought about
by income disparities in his
native New York
City.
OTO GILLEN, Artist: This kind of
sense of
anxiety that everyone is having
about the
future, and the idea that the
future has arrived
faster than we thought it would,
and in a
way that we didn't expect to, to
show a certain
state of America that may not be
visible to
everyone, but not in a
necessarily definitive
way.
Like, I want it to be open and
for people
to just be able to look at the
world around
them and ask questions.
JEFFREY BROWN: Other works take
a more direct
approach.
Debtfair, by a group of artists
tied to the
Occupy movement, connects the
debt incurred
by college students to the
poverty many artists
face, while the vibrant
sculptures and stained
glass windows by Raul de Nieves,
a young artist
making his first appearance in
the biennial,
approach anxiety through
allegory.
What is that story that you're
trying to tell?
RAUL DE NIEVES, Artist: The idea
of fear.
Like, how do we confront fear,
you know?
And when you realize what fear
is, it's like
you should acknowledge it and
greet it by
the hand and walk away, so that
you overcome
this idea of fear.
And, in a sense, like, being a
part of such
a grandiose show is a form of
fear.
JEFFREY BROWN: Fear for you, you
mean as an
artist?
RAUL DE NIEVES: Yes.
And I'm not afraid to say that,
because it
was -- you're like, what is this
going to
say, and how do I want to, like,
portray myself
and my work?
JEFFREY BROWN: Other signs of
the times?
A video installation by a
collective called
Postcommodity shows several
miles of the U.S.-Mexico
border fence.
Some of the work here, like
Celeste Dupuy-Spencer's
drawing Trump Rally, is overtly
political.
Frances Stark's Censorship Now
is a different
kind of provocation, arguing
that censorship,
and not free expression, would
empower artists
by raising their profile.
But, overall, this biennial, as
opposed to
some in the past, takes a less
aggressive
stance.
Whitney director Adam Weinberg:
ADAM WEINBERG, Director, Whitney
Museum of
American Art: I do see political
work, but
I do not think it's hectoring.
I don't think it's
finger-wagging.
But there's this sense of
connection, a sense
of people wanting to join
together, a sense
of -- I think a sense of
community and a feeling
that, even though these are
political times,
this is not an us-and-them
situation.
JEFFREY BROWN: That includes
artists looking
hard at their own communities.
Deana Lawson's photo series
evokes a family
album, presenting an intimate
look into lives
in her hometown.
DEANA LAWSON, Artist: The reason
why I chose
photography is because of that
immediacy,
that sort of documentary feel.
But it's oftentimes very staged,
so it's that
dialogue that I'm interested in.
I do want to pay a certain honor
to them,
at least in a sense.
JEFFREY BROWN: People who are
not the subject
of art so much.
DEANA LAWSON: Right, and
traditional art,
correct.
So, I'm from a working-class
family in Rochester,
so a lot of the subjects I'm
gravitated to
are from working-class
environments.
JEFFREY BROWN: Henry Taylor's
large- scale
figurative paintings address the
mundane,
a summer barbecue, and conflict,
black men's
encounters with police.
There's a lot of painting here,
in fact, much
of it by first-time participants
and women.
Aliza Nisenbaum spends hours
with her subjects
to depict scenes of everyday
life, but also
the immigrant experience.
Dana Schutz uses a collage
effect of color
and energy.
And then there's 87 year Jo
Baer.
You're sort of the elder
stateswoman here,
right?
JO BAER, Artist: Apparently.
Yes.
Well, who knew?
JEFFREY BROWN: Baer is a
renowned veteran
in the art world, still very
much at it with
a new series of paintings, and
returning to
the biennial after several
decades.
There's a number of younger,
especially women
painters in this show.
JO BAER: Yes.
Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: How does that
make you feel?
JO BAER: Marvelous.
I mean, look how well these
paintings go with
all these younger paintings.
Look at this installation.
It is so mind-boggling.
It is such a joy to see that
what I'm doing
is what they're doing.
JEFFREY BROWN: Taken altogether,
curators
Lew and Locks present artists
eager to engage
in ways not always associated
with contemporary
art.
CHRISTOPHER Y.
LEW: Even in artists that are
riffing on pop
culture or using more
appropriated imagery,
they're doing it in a way that
comes out of
a certain sense of emotion and
kind of sincere
interest, and not just for a
kind of ironic
pastiche.
MIA LOCKS: Actually, we were
surprised, in
some ways, that, as the show
came together,
there are a number of works that
do point
to or suggest maybe more healing
possibilities
of art, or this kind of sense of
kind of reparative
practices, which are -- maybe
that's symptomatic.
Maybe that's what we need of art
right now.
JEFFREY BROWN: The biennial
exhibition is
up through June 11.
From the Whitney Museum in New
York, I'm Jeffrey
Brown for the "PBS NewsHour."
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, finally
tonight, an update
from the final hour of today's
Supreme Court
nomination hearing.
Judge Neil Gorsuch said in
public something
that had previously reported he
had said only
privately.
When asked by Connecticut
Democratic Senator
Richard Blumenthal what he
thought of President
Trump's tweets and comments
criticizing federal
judges, Gorsuch responded this
way:
NEIL GORSUCH, Supreme Court
Nominee: I find
that disheartening.
I find that demoralizing.
JUDY WOODRUFF: That came from
this evening's
portion of the confirmation
hearings.
And we will be continuing to
cover that tomorrow.
For all of our coverage of the
hearings, you
can check our Web site,
PBS.org/NewsHour.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
Tomorrow: What is threatening
the health of
the Great Barrier Reef?
I'm Judy Woodruff.
You can join us online and again
right here
tomorrow evening.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and we will see you soon.